At Enthropic, the way that we thought
about it is we don't build for the model
of today. We build for the model six
months from now. That's actually like
still my advice to to founders that are
building on LLM. Just try to think about
like what is that frontier where the
model is not very good at today cuz it's
going to get good at it. All of Quad
Code has just been written and rewritten
and rewritten and rewritten over and
over and over. There is no part of Quad
Code that was around 6 months ago. You
try a thing, you give it to users, you
talk to users, you learn, and then
eventually you might end up at a good
idea. Sometimes you don't. Are you also
in the back of your mind thinking that
maybe like in 6 months you won't need to
prompt that explicitly? Like the model
will just be good enough to figure out
on its own?
>> Maybe in a month,
>> no more need for plan mode in a month.
>> Oh my god.
Welcome to another episode of the light
cone and today we have an extremely
special guest, Boris Churnney, the
creator engineer of Claude Code. Boris,
thanks for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for creating a thing that has
taken away my sleep for about 3 weeks
straight.
>> I am very addicted to Cloud Code and uh
it feels like rocket boosters. Has it
felt like this for people like for you
know months at this point. I think it
was like end of November is where uh a
lot of my friends said like something
changed.
>> I remember for me I felt this way when I
first created Quad Code and I didn't yet
know if I was on to something. I kind of
felt like I was on to something and then
that's when I wasn't sleeping.
>> Yeah.
>> And that was just like three straight
months.
>> This was uh September 2024. Yeah. It was
like three straight months. I I didn't
take a single day vacation. Worked
through the weekends. Worked every
single night. I was just like, "Oh my
god, this is I think this is going to be
a thing. I don't know if it's useful yet
because it it couldn't actually code
yet."
>> If you look back on uh those moments to
now, like what would be like the most
surprising thing about this moment right
now?
>> It's unbelievable that we're still using
a terminal. That was supposed to be the
starting point. I didn't think that
would be the ending point. And then the
second one is that it's even useful cuz
uh you know at the beginning it didn't
really write code. Even in February when
we G it wrote maybe like 10% of my code
or something like that. I didn't really
use it to write code. it wasn't very
good at it. I still wrote most of my
code by hand. Uh so the fact that it it
actually like our bets paid off and it
got good at the thing that we thought it
was going to get good at because it
wasn't obvious. At Enthropic, the way
that we thought about it is we don't
build for the model of today. We build
for the model 6 months from now. And
that's actually like still my advice to
to founders that are building on LLM is,
you know, just try to think about like
what is that frontier where the model is
not very good at today. um because it's
going to get good at it and you just
have to wait.
>> Going back though, but when do you
remember when you first got the idea?
Can you just talk us through that? Like
was it some like a spark or what was
even the first version of it in your
mind?
>> You know, it's funny. It was like it was
so accidental that it just kind of
evolved into this. Um you know as as
anthropic I think for Ant the bet has
been coding for a long time and the bet
has been the path to save to safe AGI is
through coding
>> and this is this has kind of always been
the idea and the way you get there is
you you teach the model how to code then
you teach it how to use tools then you
teach it how to use computers um and you
can kind of see that because the the
first team that I joined at Enthropic it
was called the anthropic labs team uh
and it produced three products it was
quadcode MCP and in the desktop app. So
you can kind of see how these like weave
together. The particular product that we
built, you know, like no one no one
asked me to build a CLI.
Um we kind of knew maybe it was time to
build some kind of coding product cuz it
seemed like the model was ready, but no
one had yet really built the product
that harnessed this capability. So like
still there's this insane feeling of
product overhang. But at the time it was
just like even crazier cuz like no one
had built this yet. And so I I started
like hacking around uh and I was like,
"Okay, we build a coding product. What
do I have to do first? I have to
understand how to use the API because I
hadn't used anthropic API at that
point." Um and so I I just built like a
little terminal app to use the API.
That's all that I did. And it was a
little chat app because you know like
you think about the you know AI
applications of the time and you know
for non-coders today most what what are
most people using is just a chat app. So
that's what I built. Uh and you know it
was in a terminal. I can ask questions.
I give answers. Then I think tool use
came out. I just wanted to try out tool
use because I I don't really understand
what this is. I was like to use this is
cool. Is this actually useful? Probably
not. Let me just try it.
>> You built it in terminal just because it
was the easiest way to get something up
and running.
>> Yes. Cuz I didn't have to build a UI.
>> Okay.
>> It was just me
>> at that point. It was like the IDEs,
Cursor, Windsurf
taking off. Were you sort of under any
pressure or getting lots of suggestions
of, hey, like we should build this out
as a plugin or as a as a fully featured
ID itself? There was no pressure because
we didn't even know what we wanted to
build. Like the the team was just in
explore mode, you know, like we we
didn't we know vaguely we wanted to do
something in coding, but it wasn't
obvious what no one was high confidence
enough. That was like my job to figure
out. And so I g I gave the model uh the
batch tool. That was the first tool that
that I gave it just cuz I think that was
literally the example in our docs. I
just like took the example. It was in
Python. I just ported it to TypeScript
because that that's how I wrote it. You
know, I didn't know like what the model
could do with bash. So I asked it to
like read a file. It could like cat the
file. So like that was cool. And then I
was like, "Okay, like what can you
actually do?" And and I asked her, "What
music am I listening to?" He wrote some
like Apple script to script my my Mac
and look up the music in my music
player.
>> Oh my god.
>> And this was Sauna 3.5.
>> And you know, like I I didn't think the
model could do that. And that was my
first I think ever fuel the AGI moment
>> where I was just like, "Oh my god, the
model it just wants to use tools. That's
all it wants."
>> That's kind of fascinating. I mean it's
very kind of contrarian that clocker
works so well in such an elegant simple
form factor. I mean terminals have been
around for a really long time and that
seemed to be like a good design
constraint that allowed a lot of
interesting developer experiences like
it doesn't feel like working. It just
feels fun as a developer. I don't think
about files where everything is and that
came by accident almost.
>> Yeah, it was an accident. I remember so
after the terminal started to take off
internally. Um and honestly like after
building this thing I think like 2 days
after the first prototype I started
giving it to my team just for dogfooting
cuz you know like you know if you come
up with an idea and it seems useful the
first thing you want to do is you want
to give it to people to see how they use
it. And then I came in the next day and
then Robert who sits across from me
who's another engineer he he just like
had quad code on his computer and he was
like using it to code. I was like I was
like what what are you what are you
doing? Like this thing isn't ready. It's
just a prototype. But yeah, it it was
already useful in that form factor. And
I remember when we did our launch review
to kind of launch quad code externally,
this was in December, November,
something like that in 2024. Um Dario
asked and he was like, "The us chart
internally like the the Dow chart is
like vertical. Are you like forcing
engineers to use it? Like why are you
mandating them?"
>> And I was just like, "No, no, we didn't.
We I just like posted about it and they
they' just been like telling each other
about it." Honestly, it was it was just
accidental. We we started with the CLI
because it was the cheapest thing and it
just kind of stayed there for a bit.
>> So in that 2024 period, what how were
the engineers using it? Were they sort
of shipping code with it yet or were
they using it in a different way?
>> The model is not very good at coding
yet. I I was using it personally for
automating git. Um I think at this point
I I probably forgotten most of my git
because cloud code has just been doing
it for so long. But yeah, like
automating uh bash commands that that
was a very early use case and like
operating like Kubernetes and kind of
things like this. People were using it
for coding. So there were some early
signs of this. I think the first use
case was actually writing unit tests
because it's a little bit lower risk and
the model was still pretty bad at it
>> but people were were were kind of
figuring it out and and they were
figuring out how to use this thing.
>> Um and one thing that we saw is people
started writing these markdown files for
themselves and then having the model
read that markdown file. And this is
where QuadMD came from. Probably the
single for me biggest principle in
product is latent demand. Um and the
just every bit of this product is built
through latent demand after their
initial CLI. Uh and so quadmd is an
example of that. There's this other
general principle that I think is maybe
interesting where you can build for the
model and then you can build scaffolding
around the model in order to improve
performance a little bit and depending
on the domain you can improve
performance maybe 10 20% something like
that and then essentially the gain is
wiped out with the next model. So either
you can build build the scaffolding and
then you know get some performance gain
and then rebuild it again or you just
wait for the next model and then you
kind of get it for free. the quantumd
and kind of the scaffolding is an
example of that and really I think
that's why we stayed in the CLI is
because we felt there is no UI we could
build that would still be relevant in 6
months because the model was improving
so quickly
>> earlier we were saying like we should
compare cloud MDs but you said something
very profound which is you know yours is
actually very short which is almost like
the opposite of what you know people
might expect why is that what's in your
cloud MD
>> okay so I I checked this before we came
so my my cloud has two
Um, one is, uh, there it's just two
lines. So, the first line is whenever
you put up a PR, enable automerge. Um,
so as soon as someone accepts it, it's
merged. That's just so I can like code
and I don't have to kind of go back and
forth with CR or whatever. And then the
second one is whenever I put up a PR,
post it in our internal team stamps
channel. Uh, just so someone can stamp
it and I can get unblocked. Uh, and the
idea is every other instruction is in
our quadmd that's checked into the
codebase and it's something our entire
team contributes to multiple times a
week. And very often I'll see someone's
PR and they make some like mistake
that's totally preventable and I'll just
literally tag Claude on the PR. I'll
just do like add quad, you know, like
add this to the quad MD and I'll do
this, you know, like many times a week.
>> Do you have to like compact the Claude
MD? Like I definitely reached a point
where I got the message at the top
saying your cloud MD is like thousands
of tokens now. What do you do when you
guys hit that?
>> So our quadm is actually pretty short. I
think it's like couple thousand tokens
maybe something like that. Um if if you
hit this my recommendation would be
delete your quadmd and just start fresh.
>> Interesting.
>> I think a lot of people like they try to
overengineer this right and and really
like the capability changes with every
model. And so the thing that you want is
do the minimal possible thing in order
to get the model on track. And so if you
delete your quadd and then you know the
model is getting off track, it does the
wrong thing. That's when you kind of add
back a little bit at a time. And what
you're probably going to find is with
every model, you have to add less and
less. For me, I consider myself a pretty
average engineer to be honest. Like I
don't use a lot of fancy tools. Like I I
don't use like Vim. I use, you know, VS
Code because it's simpler. Um I don't
really
>> Wait, really? I would have assumed that
because you built this in the terminal
that you were sort of like a dieh hard
ter terminal like Vim Vim only person
you know screw those VS code people you
know
>> well we have people like that on the
team there's you know like Adam Wolf for
example he's he's on the team he's like
you will never take Vim for my cold dead
hands like yeah so there's definitely a
lot of people like that on the team and
this is one of the things that I learned
early on is every engineer likes to hold
their dev tools differently they like to
use different tools there's just no one
tool that works for everyone but I think
also this is one of the things that
makes it possible for quad code to be so
good because I kind of think about it as
what is the product that I would use
that makes sense to me and so to use
quad code you don't have to understand
Vim you don't have to understand TMX you
don't have to know how to like SSH you
don't have to know all the stuff you
just have to open up the tool and it'll
guide you it'll it'll do all this stuff
>> how do you decide how verbose you want
like sort of the terminal to be like
sometimes you have to go you know
control O and check it out and is it
like internal bike shed battles around
like longer shorter I mean every user
probably has a for an opinion like how
do you make those sorts of decisions?
>> What What's your opinion? Is it is it
too verbose right now?
>> Oh, I love the verbosity cuz basically
sometimes it just like goes off the deep
end and I'm watching and then I can just
read very quickly and it's like, "Oh,
no, no, it's not that." And then I
escape and then just stop it and then it
just like stops an entire bug farm like
as it's happening. I mean, that's
usually when I didn't do plan mode
properly.
>> This is something that we probably
change pretty often. Um, I remember
early on, this is maybe six months ago,
I tried to get rid of bash output just
internally just to like summarize it
because I was like these giant long bash
commands, I don't actually care. And
then I gave it to anthropic employees
for a day and everyone just revolted.
I want to see my dash because it it
actually is quite useful for, you know,
like for something like git output,
maybe it's not useful, but if you're
running, you know, like Kubernetes jobs
or something like this, you actually do
want to see it. We recently hit the hid
the file reads and uh file searches. So
you'll notice instead of saying, you
know, like read food.md said, you know,
like read one file, search searched one
pattern. And this is something I think
we could not have shipped six months ago
because the model just was not ready. It
would have, you know, it still read the
wrong thing pretty often. As a user, you
still had to be there and kind of catch
it and debug it. But nowadays, I just
noticed it's on the right track almost
every time. And because it's using tools
so much, it's actually a lot better just
to summarize it. Um, but then we shipped
it. Uh, we dog fooded it for like a
month and then people on GitHub didn't
like it. Uh so there was a big issue
where people like no like I want to see
the details and that was really great
feedback. Um and so we added a new
verbose mode and so that's just like in
slash config you can enable verbose mode
and if you want to see all the file
outputs you can continue to do that and
then I posted on the issue and people
still still didn't like it which is
again awesome because like my favorite
thing in the world is just hearing
people's feedback and hearing how they
actually want to use it. Um and so we
just like iterated more and more and
more to get that really good and to make
it the thing that people want. I'm
amazed like how much I enjoy uh fixing
bugs now. And then all you have to do is
uh have really good logging and then
even just say like hey check out that
you know this particular object it
messed up in this way and it like
searches the log. It figures everything
out. It can like go into your you can
make a production tunnel and it'll look
at your production DB for you. It's like
this is insane. Bug fixing is just going
to sentry copy markdown. You know pretty
soon it's just going to be straight MCP.
It's like an autobug fixing like and
test making sort of uh what's the new uh
term they call it like a making a
startup factory. Oh yeah.
>> Right. There's like all these concepts
now of rather than having to review the
code, you know, I'm I'm old school, so I
like the verbosity. I like to say, "Oh,
well, you're doing this, but I want you
to do that." Right? But there's a
totally different school of thought now
that says like anytime an a real human
being has to look at code uh that's bad.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Which is fascinating.
>> I think like Dan Chipper talks about
this a lot as kind of when whenever you
see the model make a mistake try to put
in the quadmd try to put it in like
skills or something like that so it's
reusable. But I I think there's this
meta point that I actually struggle with
a lot. And I people talk about like
agents can do this, agents can do that,
but actually what agents can do, it
changes with every single model. And so
sometimes there's a new person that
joins the team and they actually use
quad code more than I would have used
it.
>> And I'm just constantly surprised by
this. Like for example, there was a we
had like a memory leak and we were
trying to debug it. Um and by the way,
like Jared Sumar has just been on this
crusade killing all the memory leaks and
it's just been amazing. But before Jared
was on the team, I had to do this and
there was this memory leak. I I was
trying to debug it. And so I I took a
heap dump. I opened it in DevTools. I
was looking through the profile. Then I
was looking through the code and I I was
just trying to figure this out. And then
another engineer on the team, Chris, he
just like asked Quad Code. He was like,
"Hey, I think there's a memory leak. Can
you like run this?" And then like try to
figure it out. And Quad Code like took
the heap dump. It wrote a little tool
for itself to like analyze the heap
dump. And then it found the leak faster
than I did. And this is just something I
have to constantly relearn because my
brain is still stuck somewhere six
months ago at times.
>> So what would be some advice for
technical founders to really become
maximalists at the latest model release?
It sounds like people off of fresh off
of school or that don't have any
assumptions might be better suited than
maybe sometimes engineers who have been
working at it for a long time. And how
do the experts get better? I think for
yourself it's kind of beginner mindset
and uh I don't know maybe just like
humility like I feel like engineers as a
discipline we've learned to have very
strong opinions and senior engineers are
kind of rewarded for this in my old job
at a big company when I hired like
architects and this kind of a type of
engineer you look for people that have a
lot of experience and really strong
opinions but it actually turns out a lot
of this stuff just isn't relevant
anymore and a lot of these opinions
should change because the model is
getting better um so I think actually
the biggest skill is people that can
think scientifically and can just think
from first principles.
>> How do you screen for that when you try
to hire someone now for for your team?
>> I sometimes ask about what's an example
of when you're wrong. It's a really good
one. You know, some of these like
classic behavioral questions like not
even coding questions I think are quite
useful because you can see if people can
recognize their mistake in hindsight, if
they can claim credit for the mistake
and if they learn something from it. And
I think a lot of these like very senior
people especially there there are some
founder types like this but I think
founders in particular are actually
quite good at it. Um but other people
sometimes will never really take uh
they'll never take the blame for a
mistake. But I don't know like for me
personally I'm wrong probably half the
time. Like half my ideas are bad and you
just have to try stuff and you know you
try a thing you give it to users you
talk to users you learn and then
eventually you might end up at a good
idea. Sometimes you don't. And this is
the skill that I think in in the past
was very important for founders, but now
I think it's very important for every
engineer.
>> Do you think um you would ever hire
someone based on the uh claude code
transcript of uh them working with the
agent cuz we're actively doing that
right now. We just added uh just as a
test like you can upload a transcript of
you coding a feature with cloud code or
codeex or whatever it is. Personally, I
think that like it's going to work. I
mean, you can figure out uh how someone
thinks, like whether they're looking at
the logs or not, like can they correct
the agent if it goes off off the rails?
Like, does do they use plan mode? You
know, when they use plan mode, do they
make sure that there are tests or you
know, all of these different things
that,
>> you know, do they think about systems?
Do they even understand systems? Like,
there's just so much that's sort of
embedded in that that I imagine. I just
want like a spider uh a spiderweb graph,
you know, like in those video games like
NBA 2K. It's like, oh, this person's
really good at shooting or defense. It's
like you could imagine a spiderweb graph
of like, you know, someone's claude code
skill level.
>> Yeah. What would what would the skills
be? What would be those?
>> I mean, I think it's like systems
testing must be like user behavior. I
mean, there's got to be a design part
like product sense maybe also just like
automating stuff. Mhm. My favorite thing
in CloudMD uh for me is I have a thing
that says for every plan decide whether
it's overengineered, underengineered, or
perfectly engineered and why.
>> I think this is something that we're
trying to figure out, too, cuz I I think
uh when I look at engineers on the team
that I think are the most effective,
there's essentially two, it's very
biodal. Um there's one side where it's
extreme specialists. Um and so like I
named Jared before, like he's a really
good example of this and kind of the bun
team is a really good example. Just
hyper specialist. They understand dev
tools better than anyone else. They
understand JavaScript runtime systems
better than anyone else. And then
there's the flip side of kind of hyper
generalists and that's kind of the rest
of the team. And a lot of people they
span like product and info or product
and design um or you know like product
and user research, product and business.
I really like to see people that just do
weird stuff. I think that's one of these
things that was kind of a warning sign
in the past because it's like can these
people actually build something useful?
>> Um that's the limits test. Yeah, that's
what must but but nowadays like for
example an engineer on the team Daisy,
she was on a different team and then she
transferred onto our team and the reason
that I wanted her to transfer is she put
up a PR for Claude Code like a couple
weeks after she joined or something and
the PR was to add a new feature to
Claude Code and then instead of just
adding the feature what she did is first
she put up a PR to give Claude code a
tool so that it can test an arbitrary
tool and verify that that works. And
then she put up that PR and then she had
Quad write its own tool instead of
herself implementing it. And I think
it's this kind of out of the box
thinking that is is just so interesting
because not a lot of people get it yet.
You know, like we use the Quad agents
SDK to automate pretty much every part
of development. It automates code
review, security review. Uh it labels
all of our issues. It shephards things
to production. It does pretty much
everything for us. But I think
externally I'm seeing a lot of people
start to figure this out, but it's
actually taken a while to figure out how
do you use LMS in this way? How do you
use this new kind of automation? So it's
kind of a new skill.
>> I guess one of the uh funnier things
that I've been having office hours with
various founders about is um you have
like sort of the visionary founder who
has like the idea they've like built
this like crystal palace of the product
that they want to build. they've totally
loaded in their brain, you know, who the
user is and what they feel and what
they're motivated by and then they're
sitting in claude code and they can do
like, you know, 50x work and then but
they have engineers who work for them
who like don't have the, you know,
crystal memory palace of like the
platonic ideal of the product that the
pro founder has and they can only do
like 5x work. Are you hearing stories
like that? there's usually a person
who's like the core like designer of a
thing and they're just like, you know,
trying to blast it out of their brain.
What's the nature of like teams like
that? You know, it seems like that's
almost a stable configuration. Like
you're going to have the visionary who
like now is unleashed, but you know,
maybe going back to the top of it, like
I'm experiencing this right now. I was
like, "Oh, well, I'm only a solo person
and you know, I need to eat and sleep
and I have, you know, a whole job. It's
like, how am I going to do this?" You
know,
>> you know, like we just launched quad
teams and, you know, this is a way to do
it, but you can also just build your own
way to do it. It's pretty easy.
>> What's the vision for cloud teams?
>> Just collaboration. It's like there's
this whole new field of like agent top
apologies that people are exploring.
Like what are the ways that you can
configure agents? There's this one sub
idea which is uncorrelated context
windows. And the idea is just multiple
agents, they have fresh context windows
that aren't essentially polluted with
each other's context or their own
previous context. And if you throw more
context at a problem, that's like a form
of test time compute. Um, and so you
just get more capability that way. And
then if you have the right topology on
top of it, so the agents can communicate
in the right way, they're laid out in
the right way, then they can just build
bigger stuff. And so Teams is kind of
like one idea. There's a few more that
are coming pretty soon. Um, and the idea
is just maybe it can build a little bit
more. I think the first kind of big
example where it worked is our plugins
feature was entirely built by a swarm
over over a weekend. It just ran for
like a few days. There wasn't really
human intervention. And plugins is
pretty much in the form that it was when
when it came out.
>> How did you set that up? Like did you
spec out sort of the outcome that you
were hoping for and then let it sort of
figure out the details and then like let
it run?
>> Yeah. an engineer on the team just gave
uh gave Quad a spec and um told Quad to
use a Asauna board and then Quad just
put up a bunch of tickets on a sauna and
then spawned a bunch of agents and the
agent started picking up tasks. The main
quad just gave it instructions and they
all just figured it out
>> like independent um agents that didn't
have the context of the bigger spec.
Right.
>> Right. If you if you think about the way
that uh you know like how our agents
actually started nowadays and you know I
haven't pulled the data on this but I
would bet the majority of agents are
actually prompted by quad today in the
form of uh sub agents cuz like a sub
agent is just like a recursive quad code
that's all it is in the code and it's
just prompted by we call her mama quad
>> and that that's all it is and I think
probably if you look at most agents
they're launched in this way
>> my claude insights just told me to do
this more for debugging so that I get
like I spend a lot of time on debugging
And it would just be better to have like
multiple sub agents spin up and like
debug something in parallel. And so then
I just like added that to my claude MD
to just be like, hey, like next time you
try and fix a bug like have one agent
that like looks in the log, like one
that looks in the code path. That just
seems sort of inevitable.
>> For weird scary bugs, I try to uh fix
bugs in plan mode and then it seems to
use the agents to sort of search
everything. Whereas like when you're
just trying to do it in line, it's like,
okay, I'm going to do like this one task
instead of search wide. This is
something I do all the time too. I I
just say if the if the test seems kind
of hard, this kind of research test,
I'll calibrate the number of sub aents I
ask it to use based on the difficulty of
the task.
>> So if it's like really hard, I'll say
like use three or maybe five or even 10
sub aents, research in parallel and then
see what they come up with.
>> I'm curious. So then why don't you put
that in your clawed MD file?
>> It's kind of case by case, you know,
like quadm like what is it? It's just a
it's a shortcut. Like if you find
yourself repeating the same thing over
and over, you put in the quad MD. But
otherwise, you don't have to put
everything there. You can just prompt
quad.
>> Are you also in the back of your mind
thinking that maybe like in six months,
you won't need to prompt that
explicitly? Like the model will just be
good enough to figure out on its own.
>> Maybe in a month.
>> No more need for plan mode in a month.
>> Oh my god.
>> I think plan mode probably has a limited
lifespan.
>> Interesting.
>> That's some alpha for everyone here.
What would the world look like without
plan mode? Do you just describe it at
the prompt level and it would just do
it? One shot it? Yeah, we've uh we've
started experimenting with this because
quad code can now enter plan mode by
itself. I don't know if you've you guys
have seen that.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we're trying to kind of get this
experience really good. So, it would
enter plan mode the same point where a
human would have wanted to enter it. So,
I think it's like I think it's something
like this, but actually plan mode
there's no there's no big secret to it.
All it does is it adds one sentence to
the prompt that's like please don't
code.
>> That's all it is. You can you can
actually just say that.
>> Yeah. So it sounds like a lot of the
feature development for clock code is
very much a what we talk about a YC talk
to your users
>> and then you come and implemented it. It
wasn't the other way that you had this
master plan and then implemented all the
features.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that that's all it
was like plan mode was we saw users that
that were like hey quad come up with an
idea plan this out but don't write any
code yet. And there was kind of various
versions of this. Sometimes it was just
talking through an idea. Sometimes it
was these very sophisticated specs that
that they were asking Claude to write,
but the common dimension was do a thing
without coding yet. And so literally
like this was like Sunday night at 10
p.m. I was I was just like looking at
GitHub issues and kind of seeing what
people were talking about and looking at
our internal Slack feedback channel and
I just wrote this thing in like 30
minutes and then uh shipped it that
night. It went out Monday morning. That
was plan mode. So do you mean that there
will be no need for plan mode to in the
sense of I'm worried that the model's
going to do like it's going to do like
the wrong thing or head off in the wrong
direction but there will still be a need
for that. You need to think through the
idea and figure out exactly what it is
that you want and you have to do that
somewhere.
>> I kind of think about it in terms of
like kind of increasing model
capabilities. So maybe 6 months ago a
plan was insufficient. So you get Claude
to make a plan. Let's say even with plan
mode you still have to kind of sit there
and babysit cuz it can go off track.
Nowadays what I do is probably 80% of my
sessions I say I say plan mode has a
limited lifespan but I I'm a heavy plan
mode user. Um I probably 80% of my
sessions I start in plan mode and claude
will you know it'll start it'll start
making a plan. I'll move on to my second
terminal tab and then I'll have it make
another plan and then when I run out of
tabs I open the desktop app and then I
go to the code tab and then I just start
a bunch of tabs there and they all start
in plan mode probably know like 80% of
the time. Once the plan is good, and
sometimes it takes a little back and
forth, they just get clawed to execute.
And nowadays, what I find with Opus 4.5,
I think it started with 4.6 it got
really good. Once the plan is good, it
just stays on track and it'll just do
the thing exactly right almost every
time. And so, you know, before you had
to babysit after the plan and before the
plan, now it's just before the plan. So,
maybe the next thing is you just won't
have to babysit. You can just kind of
give a prompt and Quad will figure it
out.
>> The next step is Claude just speaks to
your users directly.
Yeah, it just bypasses you entirely.
>> It's funny. This is actually the current
stuff for us. Our quads actually like
they talk to each other. They talk to
our users on Slack, at least internally
pretty often. Um, my quad will like
tweet once in a while.
>> No way.
>> Um, but I actually like delete it. It's
just like it's a little like cheesy.
Like I don't love the tone.
>> What does it want to tweet about?
>> Sometimes it'll just like respond to
someone cuz I always have like co-work
in the background and it's like it's the
co-work that really loves to do that
because it likes using a browser.
>> That's funny. A a really common pattern
is I ask Quad to build something. It'll
look in the codebase. Uh it'll see some
engineer touch something in the git
flame and then it'll message that
engineer on Slack. Um just like asking a
clarifying question and then once it
gets answer back, it'll keep going.
>> What are some tips for founders now on
how to build for the future? Sounds like
everything is really changing. What are
like some principles that will stay on
and what will change?
>> So I think some of these are pretty are
pretty basic, but I think they're even
more important now than they were
before. Um, so one example is latent
demand. Like I mentioned it a thousand
times for me. It's just like the single
biggest idea in product. It's a it's a
thing that no one understands. It's a
thing I certainly did not understand my
first few startups. And and the idea is
like people will only do a thing that
they already do. You can't get people to
do a new thing. If people are trying to
do a thing and you make it easier,
that's a good idea. But if if people are
doing a thing and you try to make them
do a different thing, they're not going
to do that. And so you just have to make
the thing that they're trying to do
easier. And I think quad is going to get
increasingly good at kind of figuring
out these kind of product ideas for you
just because it can look at feedback, it
can look at debug logs, it can kind of
figure this out.
>> That's what you mean by plan mode was
latent demand that people were already
like I don't know had their clawed chat
window open in a browser and were like
talking to it to figure out like the
spec and and what it should do. And now
that like pi mode just became that you
just do it in claw code.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Some sometimes
what I'll do is I'll just walk around
the office on on our floor and I'll just
kind of stand behind people like I I'll
say like hi so it's not and then um I'll
I'll just see kind of like how they're
using quad code. Um and this is also
just something I saw a lot um but it
also came up in GitHub issues like
people were talking about it. It seems
like so you're surprised how far the
terminal has gone and how far it's been
pushed like how far do you think it has
left to go just given with this world of
swore multiple agents like do you think
there's going to be a new a need for a
different UI on top of it?
>> It's funny if you asked me this a year
ago I would have said the terminal has
like a threemonth lifespan and then
we're going to move on to the next
thing. Uh and you can see us
experimenting with this right because
quad code started in a terminal but now
it's in you know it's on web you can
like quadcode it's in the desktop app
you know we've had that for you know
like three months or six months or
something just in the code tab um it's
in the iOS and Android apps just like in
the code tab it's in slack it's in
GitHub there's VS Code extensions
there's Jet Brains extensions so we're
just like we're always experimenting
with different form factors for this
thing to figure out what's the next
thing I've been wrong so far about the
of the CLI. So, I'm probably not the
person to forecast that.
>> What about like your advice to DevTool
founders? Like, someone's building a
DevTool company today. Should they just
like be building for engineers and
humans or should they be thinking more
about like what Claude going to think
and want and build for sort of like the
agent?
>> The way I would frame it is think about
the thing that the model wants to do and
figure out how do you make that easier.
And that's something that we saw, you
know, like when I first started hacking
on quad code, I I realized like this
thing just wants to use tools. It just
wants to interact with the world. And
how how do you how do you enable that?
Well, the way you don't do it is you put
it in a box and you're like, here's the
API, here's how you interact with me,
and here's how you interact with the
world. The way you do it is you see what
tools it wants to use. You see what it's
trying to do, and you enable that the
same way that you do for your users. And
so, like for if you're building a dev
tool startup, I would think about like
what is the problem you want to solve
for the user? And then when you use when
you apply the model to solving this
problem, what is the thing the model
wants to do?
>> And then what is the technical and
product solution that serves the weight
and demand of both? YC's next batch is
now taking applications. Got a startup
in you? Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video. Back in the day, more than
10 years ago, you were a very heav heavy
user and you wrote a book about
TypeScript, right? Before Typescript was
cool. This is when everyone was a deep
in JavaScript. This is back in early
2010s, right?
>> Yeah, something like that.
>> Before Typescript was a thing because
back then is a very weird language. It's
not supposed to do a lot of things with
being typed in JavaScript and now it's
the right thing and it feels like clot
code in the terminal has a lot of
parallels with TypeScript at the
beginning.
>> TypeScript makes a lot of really weird
language decisions. So if you look at
the type system pretty much anything can
be a literal type for example and this
is like this is super weird cuz like
even like like Haskell doesn't even do
this. It's just like it's too extreme or
it has like conditional types which I
don't think any language thought of at
all.
>> It was like very strongly typed.
>> Yeah, it was very strongly and and the
idea was like when you know like when
Joe Pamer and Anders and the early team
was like building this thing, the way
they built it is we okay, we have these
teams with these big untyped JavaScript
code bases. We have to get types in
there, but we're not going to get
engineers to change that the way that
they code. You're not going to get
JavaScript people to have like, you
know, 15 layers of class inheritance
like you would a Java programmer, right?
They're going to write code the way
they're going to write it. They're
they're going to use reflection and
they're going to use mutation and
they're going to use all these features
that traditionally are very very
difficult to type.
>> They're a very unsafe type to any strong
functional programmer.
>> That's right. That's right. That's
right. And so the thing that they did
instead of getting people to kind of
change the way that they code, they they
built a type system around this. And it
was just it's brilliant because there's
all these ideas that no one was thinking
about even in academia like no one
thought of a bunch of these ideas. It
purely came out of the practice of
observing people and seeing how
JavaScript programmers want to write
code. And so you know for for quad code
it there there are some ideas that are
kind of similar in that you know like
you can use it like a Unix utility. You
can pipe into it. You can pipe out of
it. Um in some ways it is kind of
rigorous in this way but in in almost
every other way it's just the tool that
we wanted. like I I build a tool for
myself and then the team builds the tool
for themselves and then for anthropic
employees and then for users and it just
ends up being really useful. It's not
it's not this like principled and
academic thing which I think the the
proof is actually in the results. Now
fast forward more than 15 years later
not many codebases are in Haskell which
is more academic and there's tons of
them now on TypeScript because it's way
more practical
>> right
>> which is interesting. Yeah, it is
interesting, right? It's like TypeScript
solves a problem.
>> I guess one thing that's cool, I don't
know how many people know, but the
terminal is actually one of the most
beautiful terminal apps out there and is
actually written with React terminal.
>> When I first started building it, you
know, like I I did front-end engineering
for for a while. So, and I was also like
a, you know, I'm I'm sort of like a
hybrid, like I do like design and user
research and, you know, write code and
all this stuff. And we love hiring
engineers that are like this. Um, so we
just we love generalists. So for me it's
like okay, I'm building a thing for the
terminal. I'm actually kind of a shitty
Vim user. So like how do I build a thing
for people like me that um you know are
are going to be working in a terminal.
And I think just the delight is so
important. And I feel like at YC this is
something you talk about a lot, right?
It's like build a thing that people
love. If the product is useful but you
don't fall in love with it, that's not
great. Um so it kind of has to do both.
Designing for the terminal honestly has
been hard, right? It's like uh it's like
80 by 100 characters or whatever. you
have like 256 colors, you have one font
size, you don't have like mouse
interactions, there's all this stuff you
can't do, and there's all these very
hard trade-offs. So, like a little known
thing, for example, is you can actually
enable mouse interactions in a terminal.
So, you can enable like clicking and
stuff.
>> Oh, how do you do that in cloud code?
I've been trying to figure out how to do
this.
>> We don't we don't have it in cloud code
because we actually prototyped it a few
times and it felt really bad because the
trade-off is you have to virtualize
scrolling and so there's all these weird
trade-offs because like the way
terminals work is like there's no DOM,
right? It's like there's like anti-
escape codes and these kind of weird
organically evolved specs since like the
1960s or whatever.
>> Yeah. It feels like BBS's. It's like a
BBS door game.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh my god.
>> That's like that's like a great
compliment. Yeah. Yeah. Like it should
feel like you're discovering
>> Lord of the Red Dragon. It's fantastic.
Oh my god.
>> Yeah. But we have we've had to just like
discover all these kind of UX principles
for building the terminal cuz no one
really writes about this stuff. And if
you look at the big terminal apps of,
you know, like the 80s or 90s or 2000s
or whatever, they use like ed curses and
they have all these like windows and
things like this. And it just looks kind
of like janky by modern standards. It
just looks too heavy and complicated.
And so we had to like reinvent a lot.
And you know, for example, something
like the terminal spinner, like just
like the spinner words, it's gone
through probably I want to say like 50
maybe 100 iterations at this point. And
probably 80% of those didn't ship. So we
tried it, it didn't feel good, move on
to the next one. try it, didn't feel
good, move on to the next one. Uh, and
this was like sort of one of the amazing
things about quad code, right? Is like
you can write these prototypes and you
can just do like 20 prototypes back to
back, see which one you like, and then
ship that and the whole thing takes
maybe a couple hours.
>> Whereas in the past, what you would have
had to do is like wen to use origami or
framer or something like this. You built
like maybe three prototypes, it took
like two weeks. It just took much much
longer.
>> And so we have this luxury of we have to
discover this new thing. We have to
build a thing. We don't know what the
right endpoint is, but we can iterate
there so quickly and that's what makes
it really easy and that's what lets us
build a product that's like joyous and
that people like to use.
>> Boris, you had other advice for for
builders and we kept interrupting you
because we have so many questions, but
>> I would say um so okay, so maybe two
pieces of advice that are kind of weird
because it's like about building for the
model. So one is uh don't build for the
model of today, build for the model of 6
months from now. This is like sort of
weird, right? Because like you can't
find PMF if the product doesn't work.
But actually this is the thing that you
should do because otherwise what will
happen is you spend a bunch of work you
find PMF for the product right now and
then you're just going to get leaprogged
by someone else um because they're
building for the next model and a new
model comes out every few months. Use
the model, feel out the boundary of what
it can do and then build for the model
that you think will be the model maybe 6
months from now. I think the second
thing is um you know actually in the in
the quad code where in the quad code
area where we sit we have a framed copy
of the bitter lesson on the wall. Um and
this is this like rich sutton uh I like
everyone should read it if if you
haven't uh and the idea is the more
general model will always be the more
specific model and there's a lot of
corlaries to this but essentially what
it boils down to is never bet against
the model. Uh, and so this is just like
a thing to that that we always think
about where we could build a feature
into cloud code. We could make it better
as a product and we call this
scaffolding. That's all this code that's
not the model itself. But we could also
just wait like a couple months and the
model can probably just do the thing
instead. Um, and there's always this
trade-off, right? It's like engineering
work now and you can kind of extend the
capability a little bit, maybe 10 20% or
whatever in whatever domain on this
like, you know, like the spider chart of
what you're trying to extend. Um, or you
can just wait and the next model will do
it. So just always always think in terms
of this trade-off where where do you
actually want to invest and assume that
whatever the scaffolding is it's just
tech.
>> How often do you rewrite the code ways
of uh clock code is every six months
with this with this
>> is there scaffolding that you've deleted
because you don't need it anymore
because the model just improved.
>> Oh so much. Yeah. Like all of quad code
has just been written and rewritten and
rewritten and rewritten over and over
and over. We unhip tools every couple
weeks. We add new tools every couple
weeks.
There's no part of quad code that was
around six months ago. It's just
constantly rewritten.
>> Would you say most of the code base for
current cloud code is only say 80% of it
is only less than a couple months old.
>> Yeah, definitely. It might it might even
be like less than Yeah, maybe like a
couple months. That that feels about
right.
>> So it's like the life cycle of code now.
That's another alpha is expecting it to
be the shelf life to be just couple
months.
>> Yeah.
>> For the best founders.
>> Do you see uh Steve Yaggi's uh post
about how awesome working at Anthropic
is? And I think there's a line in there
that says that an anthropic engineer uh
currently averages 1,000x more
productivity than a Google engineer at
Google's peak which is really an insane
number honestly like 1,000x like you
know we're 3 years ago we were still
talking about 10x engineers now we're
talking about 1000x on top of a Google
engineer in the prime like this is
unbelievable honestly. Yeah, I mean
internally if you if you look at like
technical employees, they all use quad
code every day. Um, and even
non-technical employees, I think like
half the sales team uses quad code. Um,
they they've started switching to
co-work because it's a little easier to
use. It has like a VM, so it's a little
bit safer. But yeah, we actually we just
pulled a stat and the I think the team
doubled in size last year, but
productivity per engineer grew something
like 70%.
>> It's measured by
>> just like the simplest stupidest
measure, pull requests. Um, but we also
kind of cross check that against like
commits and like uh the lifetime of
commits and things like this. And since
quad code came out, productivity per
engineer at anthropic has grown 150%.
>> Oh my god.
>> Um, and this is crazy because I in my
old life I was responsible for code
quality at Meta.
>> Um, and I was responsible for the
quality of all of our code bases across
every product across like you know
Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, whatever.
>> And one of the things that the team
worked on was improving productivity.
And back then seeing a gain of something
like 2% in productivity that was like a
year of work by hundreds of people. And
so this like 100% this is just like
unheard of just completely unheard of.
>> What drove you to come over to
Anthropic? I mean basically as a builder
you could go anywhere. What was the
moment that made you say like actually
this is the set of people or this is the
approach. I was living in rural Japan
and I was opening up Hacker News every
morning and I was reading the news and
uh it was all it just started to be like
AI stuff at some point and uh I started
to use some of these early products and
uh I remember like the first couple
times that I used it I was just like it
just took my breath away. That was like
very cheesy to say, but that was
actually that was actually the feeling.
Like it was just like it was amazing
like as a as as a builder, I've just
never kind of felt felt this feeling
like using these very very early
products. That was like in the quad 2
days or you know something like that.
And so I I just talking started talking
to friends at Labs um just to kind of
see what was going on. Um and uh I met
Ben man who's one of the founders at uh
at Anthropic and uh he just immediately
won me over. Um and as soon as I met
kind of the rest of the team at an it
just won me over and I think I think
probably in two ways. So one is it
operates as a research lab. Um so the
product was teeny teeny tiny. It's
really all about building a safe model.
That's all that matters. Um and so this
idea of just being very close to the
model and being very close to
development and being not the most
important thing because the product
isn't anymore. It's just the model is
the thing that's the most important. Um
that really resonated with me after
building product for many years. And
then the second thing was just how
missiondriven it is. Um like I'm I'm a
huge sci-fi reader. My bookshelf is just
like filled with sci-fi. And so like I
just know how bad this can go.
>> And when I kind of think about what's
going to happen this year, it you know
it's going to be totally insane. And in
the worst case it can go very very bad.
>> Um and so I just wanted to be at a place
that really understood that and kind of
really internalized that. And at Ant,
you know, like if you overhear
conversations in the lunchroom or in the
hallway, people are talking about AI
safety. this is really the thing that
everyone cares about more than anything.
Um, and so I just wanted to be in a
place like that. I I know I know for me
personally the mission is just so
important.
>> What is gonna happen this year?
>> Okay. So if you think back like six
months ago and uh kind of what are the
predictions that people are making? So
Daario predicted that 90% of the code at
Anthropic would be would be written by
Quad. This is true. Um for me personally
it's been 100% for like since Opus 4.5.
Um I just I uninstalled my IDE. I don't
edit a single line of code by hand. It's
just 100% quad code and Opus. Um and you
know I land you know like 20 PR a day
every day. If you look at Enthropic
overall it ranges between like 70 to 90%
uh you know depending on the team. For a
lot of teams it's also like 100% for a
lot of people it's 100%. And I remember
making this prediction back in May when
we ged cloud code that you wouldn't need
an ID to code anymore. Uh and it was
totally crazy to say. I feel like people
in the audience gasped
>> because it was such like a silly
prediction at the time. But really all
it is is like you just like trace the
you know the exponential
>> and this is just like so deep in you
know the DNA at cuz like you know three
of our founders were co-authors of the
scaling laws paper they kind of they saw
this very early and so this is just like
tracing the exponential this is what's
going to happen and yes that happened.
So continuing to trace the exponential I
think what will happen is coding will be
generally solved for everyone. Um, and I
think today coding is practically
solved, you know, for me and I think
it'll be the case for everyone. Um, you
know, regardless of domain, I think
we're going to start to see the title
software engineer go away. And I think
it's just going to be maybe builder,
maybe product manager, maybe we'll keep
the title as kind of a vestigial thing,
but the work that people do, it's not
just going to be coding. It's software
engineers are also going to be writing
specs. They're going to be talking to
users. like this thing that we're
starting to see right now in our team
where engineers are very much
generalists and every single function on
our team codes like our PM's code, our
designers code, our EM codes, our um
like everyone our our finance guy codes
like everyone on our team codes. We're
going to start to see this everywhere.
So this is sort of uh this is kind of
like the lower bound if we just continue
the trend. The upper bound I think is a
lot scarier. Um, and this is something
like, you know, we hit ASL4. Um, and
this, you know, at anthropic, we talked
about these safety levels. ASL3 is where
the models are right now. ASL4 is the
model is recursively self-improving. Um,
and so if this happens, essentially, we
have to meet a bunch of criteria before
we can release a model. And so the the
extreme is that, you know, this happens
um or there's some kind of catastrophic
misuse like people are using the model
to design bioiruses, design zero days,
stuff like this. Um, and this is
something that we're really really
actively working on so that doesn't
happen. I think uh it's just been
honestly it's just been like so exciting
and humbling like seeing how people are
using quad code like uh you know I just
wanted to build a cool thing and it
ended up being really useful uh and that
was so surprising and so exciting.
>> My impression from Twitter or just the
outside is basically everyone went away
over the holidays and then like found
out about Claude code and it's just been
crazy ever since. Is that how it was for
you at like internally? Did you were you
having like a nice Christmas break and
then came back and like what happened?
Well, actually for all of December, I
was traveling around. Uh, and I I took a
coding vacation. So, we were kind of
traveling around and I was just like
coding every day. So, that was really
nice. Uh, and then I also started to use
Twitter at the time cuz like I I worked
on Threads back then way back when. So,
I've been a Threads user for a while.
So, I just like tried to see kind of
like other platforms where people are.
Yeah. I think for a lot of people they
kind of discovered that was the moment
where they discovered Opus 4.5. I kind
of already knew.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh, and internally quad code's just been
on this like exponential tear for many
many months now. So that just like it it
became even more steep. That's what we
saw. And if you look at cloud code now,
you know, there was some stat from
Mercury that like 70% of startups are
you know choosing cloud as their model
of choice. There was some other stat
from like semi analysis that 4% of all
public commits are made by cloud code.
um like of all code written everywhere.
All the companies, you know, use squad
code from like the biggest companies to
kind of, you know, smallest startups,
you know, like it it wrote it it plotted
the course for Perseverance like for
like the Mars rover. This is just like
this is the coolest thing for me. And we
like we even printed posters cuz the
team was like, "Wow, this is just like
so cool that NASA chooses to use this
thing." So, yeah, it's just like it's
humbling. Um but it also feels like the
very beginning. What's the sort of
interaction between uh claude code and
then co-work like you know was it a fork
of cla code? Was it like you had cla
code look at the cloud code and say
let's make a new spec for nontechnical
people that you know keeps all the
lessons and then you know it sort of
went off for a couple days and did that.
What's the genesis of that and you know
where do you think that goes?
>> This is going to be like my fifth time
using the word wait and demand.
It was just that I mean like we we were
looking at Twitter and there was like
that one guy that was using quad code to
like monitor his tomato plants.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh there was like this other person that
was using it to like recover wedding
photos off of a corrupted hard drive.
There were people that using it for like
uh for finance. When we looked
internally at anthropic, every designer
is using it all the entire finance team
at this point is using it. The entire
data science team is using it not for
coding. People are jumping over hoops to
install a thing in the terminal so that
they could use this. So we knew for a
while that we wanted to build something
and so we're experimenting with a bunch
of different ideas and the thing that
kind of took off was just you know a
little cloud code wrapper in a guey in
the desktop app and that's all it is.
It's just quad code under the hood. It's
the same agent.
>> Oh wow.
>> Um and uh Felix and the team and Felix
was early Electron contributor. He kind
of knows that stack really well and he
was hacking on various ideas and uh they
they built it in I think something like
10 days. It was it was just like 100%
written by quad code. Uh and it just
felt ready to release. There was a lot
of stuff that we had to build for
nontechnical users. So it's a little bit
different than a technical audience. Uh
it runs in a all the code runs in a
virtual machine. Uh there's a lot of
delete uh protections for deletion and
things like this. There's a lot of
permission prompting and kind of other
guardrails for users. Um yeah, it was
honestly pretty obvious. Boris, thank
you so much for making something that uh
is taking away all my sleep, but in
return, it's making me feel creator mode
again, sort of founder mode again. It's
been an exhilarating 3 weeks. I like
can't believe I waited that long since
November to actually get into it. Thank
you so much for being with us. Thank you
for building what you're building.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. And uh send
bugs.
>> Sounds good.
Come
on now.